README.md, before:

# <img align="top" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Py/master/documentation/source/_static/rmg-logo-small.png"> RMG Py - Reaction Mechanism Generator (Python Version) 

This repository contains the Python version of Reaction Mechanism Generator 
(RMG), a tool for automatically generating kinetic models of chemical reaction
mechanisms, and related projects. RMG is developed primarily by researchers in 
[Prof. William Green's research group](http://web.mit.edu/greengp/) at the 
[Massachusetts Institute of Technology](http://web.mit.edu/) 
and [Prof. Richard West's research group](http://www.northeastern.edu/comocheng/) at 
[Northeastern University](http://www.northeastern.edu/). 

The most official repository can be found on github and is located at https://github.com/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Py.
Instructions on how to use RMG can be found in the [Documentation](http://ReactionMechanismGenerator.github.io/RMG-Py/) including
details on [how to install RMG-Py](http://ReactionMechanismGenerator.github.io/RMG-Py/users/rmg/installation/index.html)
and its numerous dependencies.  PDF versions of the Documentation can also be found in the documentation folder
of the source code.

We have a continuous integration build test suite 
which you can access at https://travis-ci.org/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Py
The current build status is
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Py.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Py)

Details of the (earlier established) Java version of RMG can be found
on [Sourceforge](http://rmg.sourceforge.net/) (although it too is 
developed [here on github](https://github.com/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Java/)). 

Please email [rmg_dev@mit.edu](mailto:rmg_dev@mit.edu) if you have any questions.

Commit message:

Update README with info about CanTherm

README.md, after:

# <img align="top" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Py/master/documentation/source/_static/rmg-logo-small.png"> RMG Py - Reaction Mechanism Generator (Python Version) 

This repository contains the Python version of Reaction Mechanism Generator 
(RMG), a tool for automatically generating chemical reaction
mechanisms for modeling reaction systems including pyrolysis, combustion,
atmospheric science, and more.

It also includes CanTherm, the package for calculating thermodynamics, high-pressure-limit
rate coefficients, and pressure dependent rate coefficients from quantum chemical calculations.
CanTherm is compatible with a variety of ab initio quantum chemistry software programs, including but not limited to
Gaussian, MOPAC, QChem, and MOLPRO.

The most official repository can be found on github and is located at https://github.com/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Py.
Instructions on how to use RMG can be found in the [RMG Documentation](http://ReactionMechanismGenerator.github.io/RMG-Py/) including
details on [how to install RMG-Py](http://ReactionMechanismGenerator.github.io/RMG-Py/users/rmg/installation/index.html)
and its numerous dependencies.  The [CanTherm Documentation](http://ReactionMechanismGenerator.github.io/RMG-Py/users/cantherm/) is also available online.
 PDF versions of all the documentation can also be found in the documentation folder of the source code.  



RMG is developed primarily by researchers in 
[Prof. William Green's research group](http://cheme.scripts.mit.edu/green-group/) at the 
[Massachusetts Institute of Technology](http://web.mit.edu/) 
and [Prof. Richard West's research group](http://www.northeastern.edu/comocheng/) at 
[Northeastern University](http://www.northeastern.edu/). 


We have a continuous integration build test suite 
which you can access at https://travis-ci.org/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Py
The current build status is
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Py.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Py)

Details of the (earlier established) Java version of RMG can be found
on [Sourceforge](http://rmg.sourceforge.net/) (although it too is 
developed [here on github](https://github.com/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Java/)). 

Please post any issues you may have to the [issues page](https://github.com/ReactionMechanismGenerator/RMG-Py/issues/)
or email [rmg_dev@mit.edu](mailto:rmg_dev@mit.edu) if you have questions.
