documentation/source/users/rmg/modules/sensitivity.rst, before:

.. _sensitivity:

********************
Sensitivity Analysis
********************


For sensitivity analysis, RMG-Py must be compiled with the DASPK solver. 
(See :ref:`Compiling RMG-Py with Sensitivity Analysis  <compile_sensitivity>` for more details.)
Sensitivity analysis can be conducted in a standalone system for an existing kinetics model in Chemkin format.

To use the sensitivity analysis standalone module::

    python sensitivity.py input.py chem.inp species_dictionary.txt
    
where ``chem.inp`` is the CHEMKIN file and the ``species_dictionary.txt`` contains the dictionary of
species associated with the CHEMKIN file.  ``input.py`` is an input file similar to one used for an RMG job but
does not generate a RMG job.  See the following ``input.py`` example file found under the
``$RMGPy/examples/sensitivity/input.py`` folder


.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../examples/rmg/minimal_sensitivity/input.py


The names of species named in the input file must coincide with the name specified in the CHEMKIN file.  

Sensitivity analysis is conducted for the list of species given for ``sensitivity`` argument in the input file.  
The normalized concentration sensitivities with respect to the reaction rate coefficients dln(C_i)/dln(k_j) are saved to a csv file 
with the file name ``sensitivity_1_SPC_1.csv`` with the first index value indicating the reactor system and the second naming the index of the species 
the sensitivity analysis is conducted for.  Sensitivities to thermo of individual species is also saved as semi normalized sensitivities
dln(C_i)/d(G_j) where the units are given in 1/(kcal mol-1). The sensitivityThreshold is set to some value so that only
sensitivities for dln(C_i)/dln(k_j) > sensitivityThreshold  or dlnC_i/d(G_j) > sensitivityThreshold are saved to this file.

Commit message:

Switch the compile sensitivity reference to dependency restriction page

documentation/source/users/rmg/modules/sensitivity.rst, after:

.. _sensitivity:

********************
Sensitivity Analysis
********************


For sensitivity analysis, RMG-Py must be compiled with the DASPK solver, which is done by default but has 
some dependency restrictions. (See :ref:`License Restrictions on Dependencies <dependenciesRestrictions>` for more details.) 
Sensitivity analysis can be conducted in a standalone system for an existing kinetics model in Chemkin format.

To use the sensitivity analysis standalone module::

    python sensitivity.py input.py chem.inp species_dictionary.txt
    
where ``chem.inp`` is the CHEMKIN file and the ``species_dictionary.txt`` contains the dictionary of
species associated with the CHEMKIN file.  ``input.py`` is an input file similar to one used for an RMG job but
does not generate a RMG job.  See the following ``input.py`` example file found under the
``$RMGPy/examples/sensitivity/input.py`` folder


.. literalinclude:: ../../../../../examples/rmg/minimal_sensitivity/input.py


The names of species named in the input file must coincide with the name specified in the CHEMKIN file.  

Sensitivity analysis is conducted for the list of species given for ``sensitivity`` argument in the input file.  
The normalized concentration sensitivities with respect to the reaction rate coefficients dln(C_i)/dln(k_j) are saved to a csv file 
with the file name ``sensitivity_1_SPC_1.csv`` with the first index value indicating the reactor system and the second naming the index of the species 
the sensitivity analysis is conducted for.  Sensitivities to thermo of individual species is also saved as semi normalized sensitivities
dln(C_i)/d(G_j) where the units are given in 1/(kcal mol-1). The sensitivityThreshold is set to some value so that only
sensitivities for dln(C_i)/dln(k_j) > sensitivityThreshold  or dlnC_i/d(G_j) > sensitivityThreshold are saved to this file.
